you know you have a problem when
companies are trying to undercut Walmart
you came here for the truth so let me
unveil that for you there's a lot of
anecdotal evidence out there that would
suggest the economy is not as strong as
we've been told yes you're going to look
at Nvidia stock and that is surging it's
going crazy The NeverEnding gains make
it seem as though everybody is doing
fine but when you actually look at it
things are much more difficult
than it appears to be and I'm going to
show you some of those stats today I'm
actually going to give you some charts
I'm going to give you everything that
you need to know so that you can make
the best decisions for yourself but of
course at the end of it I have three
things that I want to discuss and then
we're going to look at how this impacts
you and your family look even if your
circumstances aren't okay and they will
be okay in the coming years you have to
understand the people around you whether
that is your neighbors your co-workers
your family and friends they are largely
not going to be okay and guess what if
they know that you're doing fine whose
door will they come knocking on when the
time comes keep that in mind and I'll
show you those three things at the end I
want to start with this Americans are
down on the economy again with inflation
topping election concerns nothing new in
that uh respect but you can look at it
uh in terms of the consumer sentiment
that is always a good one to see that's
a 6mon low right now I'll show you the
data that goes in with this we're
talking about McDonald's and so on where
the
consumers their spending habits have
been directly reflected in the sales of
McDonald's Home Depot Under Armour
Starbucks all of them all the CEOs
they're all going on the calls and
saying our business is struggling
because the consumer
that is an absolute fact now these
companies they would not be saying that
unless they absolutely couldn't avoid it
okay they have to say this at this time
and it's like when I read this I
laughed it's sad in a sense but I I you
know it's it's funny to read this the
new quiet luxury is Burgers and Fries I
mean I never would have never even
dreamed of that and now here we are
right now here 2024 at the same time you
go down the street and you see people
you know they're doing what seems to be
like anything they want that seems like
hey if they want that new uh fancy car
they got that new fancy C they got the
new iPhone they got everything they want
and yet the new quiet luxuy is Burgers
and Fries I mean it's it's humorous in a
sense but it's it's either you laugh
your cry I guess over 60% of Americans
are buying less fast food because it is
just too expensive now I want to make
this very clear and I know your
comments I do agree I I I ate McDonald's
at an airport in
11 maybe
2011 maybe 10 uh that was the last time
I I ate McDonald's
um you know but some people like it so
anyway the point is I don't judge people
if they want to eat that that's fine if
you want to eat it by all
means there's just an issue though that
the prices of the products whether it's
McDonald's whether it's Starbucks
whether it's you know just general
groceries they have all gone up and up
and up and up and I've seen the examples
from the comment section which by the
way is
the like the like pretty much the reason
what has kept me going all these years
is the comment
section fantastic people yeah there's
the trolls and there's the the weirdos
um but there's so many great people and
that's what it is anyway and those
people have shared the comments of the
things that they are
seeing and it is shocking it's shocking
to me anyway look that's one example Red
Lobster is blaming its bankruptcy on top
shareholder and its ex CEO saying an $1
million all you can eat shrim Fiasco
contributed to its
demise they let people eat themselves
into
bankruptcy I mean that is
wild that's wild I mean people just went
in there and just said I'm going to eat
this place until it shuts down and it
did I mean that's crazy McDonald's price
increases if you want you could look
through here uh McDonald's Taco Bell and
and
Chick-fil-A go through that just to see
the prices over these last 10 years or
or you know 2019 up until now and that
has been like you could use end of 2019
whatever like just before you know all
the all the the
Fiasco um and look at what has happened
over these last few years the prices
have increased depending on what you're
looking at look like 100% doubling
doubling over this past period and uh
I've seen other ones from uh 2014 some
other charts just recently but I
included this one here from 2019 and
that yeah you could say well you know
what shouldn't be eating that food
anyway no no no that's not the point
this is a great metric we use the metric
of McDonald's and Taco Bell because it's
consistent
it's the same
food and then you can measure that over
time right you have the Big Mac index
you got all these different things that
it allows us to be consistent and that
shows us that the prices have increased
you know crazy and of course we can see
the Commodities have gone up along with
copper by the way just did that video on
copper if you haven't seen that look at
what's going on and then Florida's 125%
surge in property insurance bill
Souls Havoc look at that I mean it's
just
unbelievable commercial property
premiums skyrocketing in Florida they're
saying hey we cannot
afford the you know the hurricanes and
all the different problems that have
come up this is I mean it's going to be
a problem for a lot of people there uh
because they're just it's unacceptable
for them each year you see a ride Why
Pay More they're saying a lot of people
are dealing with this yes the prices of
the homes might be cheaper some things
might no state taxes oh but this is the
thing we can't afford to not get and yet
the price keeps going up every single
year right and so they give a couple
examples in here and I think that that's
what's happening it's it's hitting
people in One Direction or another so it
doesn't matter if you don't get it from
here you're going to get it from there
if you don't get smacked on the left
side of the head you're going to get
smacked on the right take a
pick Target starts a price war with
Walmart by slashing the cost of 5,000
popular items so they're doing this why
because they know Walmart is dealing
with some issues and I'm sure they sat
down at a meeting and said this is our
time to get more market share let's
start cutting the prices on these things
we reduce our margins all the way down
to the bottom hoping that we start
bringing customers into our stores
versus Walmart I don't know if that's
going to be successful but they're
certainly giving it a shot all right and
you tell me have you decided to shop
elsewhere over the last while because of
price
increases well I know a lot of people
that have they've been making changes so
what's next let's discuss the three
things right now you see the inflation
you know the data I keep updating you on
that but what are the three things that
we need to watch very carefully let's
look at it right
here this is
about um basically talking about Shopify
CEO it's a tech company it's based in
Canada and obviously they have to deal
with some major issues the bump in
capital gains capital gains tax rates
proposed by the liberal party is in
their recent budget will almost
certainly make the problem worse instead
of better that's what he's saying here
okay it will have an anti- innovation
effect saying quote Canada has heard
rumors about Innovation and is
determined to leave no stone unturned in
deterring it do you see what's happening
they're taxing people so bad the CEO of
the company usually they're all
political about it and say we will make
sure that and they just give some
political message it's just goes to the
bottom of the news pile nobody covers it
but he's literally saying you are
deterring innovation in this country and
that's what's happened to Canada there
is no future because there's nothing
left there's nothing left it's terrible
okay so we have to understand what our
source of income is
as individuals what is our source of
income what currency is it based in who
are my customers and what is the future
prospects what are the what are the
future prospects you need to start
answering those questions be very honest
with yourself when you answer them 75
new factories opened in Cambodia this
year now some people will say this is
diversification out of China this is and
by the way way I don't know why but
Cambodia seems to have they do a lot of
luggage which I don't know why why
luggage of all things but anyway they
open 75 new factories and you say that's
diversification however in many cases
just like with Vietnam just like with
other countries it's China that's
actually o and and Mexico I should say
it's China That's opening these
factories in these different countries
trying to get away
from tariffs and trying to diversify
their supply chain you know why it's
because labor costs are too high in
China yes and there's also the Tariff
Factor so if somebody needs to get paid
let's just make up a number five bucks
an hour in
China which is lower but let's say it
was five bucks an hour and we say oh
Cambodia I can get it for 250 so I just
split my cost in half excellent let's
open a factory in Cambodia instead do
you see what's happening here the
Outsourcing is going to the next level
make sure your job cannot be outsourced
that's number two and then we have this
which is Amazon to open its first EP of
Robotics fulfillment center in Calgary
this is in Canada they're doing a lot of
robots just understand that the robots
factor that your companies that you work
for
regardless they are going towards robots
and Automation and they are trying to do
away with human labor yes in that case
there they are employing thousands of
people but at the same time they're
trying to bring in as many robots as
they possibly can they know what's
happening is the same with Uber Uber has
made it very clear we do not want
drivers long term we want our you know
robotic cars and so on we want a fleet
of that who knows how long that will
take that's the next aspect so you got
to have your sources of income dialed in
it is going to be critical in the coming
years um you know people don't
underestimate this please okay if you
want to know more I teach people how to
mitigate the disaster that this is in my
Sunday business live sessions Sunday
business live is where I spend over two
hours every single Sunday with people
helping them build a business online
from the ground able to diversify
geographically by far by far more than
anybody that you speak to once you get
that dialed in in the way that I teach
it you will be more Diversified than
everybody else you know I assure you if
you appreciate this message hit that
thumbs up if you want to know more about
that there's a link at the top of this
description in the video and as always
I'll see you tomorrow take care